Hello and welcome back to the course on statistics.
Today we're going to jump straight into practical application of hypothesis testing.
I know this might sound a bit crazy that we're doing this right away but the thing is that we've already
discussed the Central Limit Theorem.
So we already have the apparatus that is required to perform hypothesis testing.
Moreover we've also talked about statistical significance.
So that will also aid us in today's tutorial.
So let's get straight into it right away we've got a real world challenge.
In 2015 millennials we're watching twenty six point five hours of TV a week with a standard deviation
of 10 hours.
Today you surveyed 50 millennials and found that they watched 24 hours of TV a week has the parameter
decreased.
Now this is a real data sets or some real statistics.
The twenty six point five hours in 2015 for millennials is indeed true.
The 10 hour send deviation that's what I estimated from what I could find on the Internet.
And the question here is very interesting as well because what we've seen in the previous years is a
trend where people watch more and more and more to see what this result is suggesting that perhaps millennials
have started watching less TVs from 2015.
So twenty six and a half hours now what we're seeing in our sample is 24 hours.
So we want to test this hypothesis that the number of hours per week that they're watching TV has decreased.
And why is this an important problem.
So while this could be a question that a business is faced with for instance if you're working for a
company that produces a certain type of app for the phone or maybe you are producing clothes that are
targeted towards millennials So something that a product that is for millennials and you want to find
out where to do advertising do you want to do advertising on TV or do you want to do advertising on
other mediums such as Internet or through maybe banners somewhere or something.
So you want to understand is TV a good strategy for a business going forward.
And as you can imagine it's a big call to make.
You have to be confident in this decision because ultimately this is something that is going to either
really bring revenue to your business or it's not going to bring revenue is going to just be a huge
expense going forward.
And that's why something like this is important you know important problem to solve and it's important
to understand how to answer this question with statistical significance or with sufficient confidence
in your answer.
So let's go through the steps of testing this hypothesis.
Step one is you need to state the null hypothesis the null hypothesis here is that the parameter has
not decreased or it mean is twenty six point five or greater.
Like it's important to note here that it's just equal to twice of how it could have actually increased.
And that's why equal or greater than or equal to so we're taking the greater than partners well.
Step two is to state the alternative hypothesis which is H-1 the parabola has decreased.
So the mean is less than twenty six point five.
So notice that if we do reject the null hypothesis in the end we can say that the average is 24 hours.
We can only say that the average has decreased compared to what it was that's all.
But just bear in mind that it's important to understand what are the two universes that we're choosing
between the one where it's equal great equal to or greater than 5:26 or it has decreased.
That's all the options we have in the approach of hypothesis testing.
OK so now we're going to look at how we're going to solve it.
And what you'll find is that it will be very similar to what we did with the Central Limit Theorem how
we applied it to solve analytics challenges in the previous section of the course.
So that's going to be a huge plus because it will help us get a head start.
All right.
So first things first we're going to draw our diagram for the sampling distribution and this is just
to refresh our knowledge that the central limit of states that the sampling distribution is always going
to be a normal distribution and that the few other things that you know the mean is equal to the mean
or the population salvation is calculated through the standard patient population divide by the square
root of the sample size.
But basically this is going to be a useful picture for us because we're going to be leveraging what
looks like and we're going to be drawing things on here to understand the intuition behind things.
So let's get rid of these samples.
Basically what we're saying here is that these 50 millennials they come from somewhere in this distribution.
So even though this sample came from the population of millennials of the total population of millennials
we also know is that the all of the possible samples that could have ever existed from that population
whereas the sample size is 50.
They are distributed like this.
So whether we like it or not this 50 millennial sample came from somewhere in this.
So that's that's kind of what we're operating with here.
So there's going to have those expire.
Well let's draw our mean and Salvation Army in the middle and that's one standard deviation to the right
one to the left to to the right to the left.
OK so let's now start applying the concepts that we already know Mubako me ex-parte is equal to equal
to twenty six point five.
That's one of the things about the central and the theorem this mean is equal to the mean of the population
deviation of Sigma X bar is equal to the center of population divided by the square root of the number
of observations is one point for the one in our case and X bar is equal to 24.
So let's plot it over here because this is twenty six point five.
Now I know it may not yet be clear why exactly we're performing all these calculations and what we're
aiming to achieve here.
By the way there's our expert.
So let's discuss that let's understand what is our approach here and what is intuition behind all these
things that we're doing.
So what we're aiming to achieve is we're trying to just as with the situation trying to understand is
it plausible that what happened everything that we have is that you describe here what happened happened.
Given that the null hypothesis is true.
So will we feel OK intuitive terms will we feel OK or yet will we feel OK with the fact that what happened
happened or will we feel suspicious about it.
And what that translates to into is that.
All right so let's assume that as we were saying in the null hypothesis that myu is equal to or greater
than twenty six point five.
And in fact we're saying that mews exactly twenty six point five and we'll get to that in a second why
we're saying that it's exactly 26 right.
But let's just agree that where this is equivalent to this so we're saying it's twenty six point five.
So we know that new X bar is already here as well so we know that the mean of the sampling distribution
is twenty six point five.
And we know from the sample central limit theorem that this 50 millennial sample that we picked we picked
up from the population but at the same time the central limit theorem says that any or all of the 50
millennials or 50 person samples were possibly picked.
They are distributed like this.
That's what the sampling distribution is.
So the sample that we picked has to come from this distribution as well.
And what we're saying is we can see that this is 24 hours this is twenty six point five.
So we're saying we can see this on the left.
The question is how likely is it that we just randomly picked a sample and it ended up so far away from
home.
We know that was from what we know about the normal distribution is.
That's about between the first standard deviation we're here between minus 1 contribution plus was enervation
we got about 68 percent of all of the observations they fall in here and between the two standard deviations
so minus two plus two.
We have about a ninety five point four ninety five and a half of all the observations fall in between
these two sensations.
The question is is it plausible that this X bar which you pick which we just drew here arbitrary We'll
find out exactly where it is it might be here might be here might be there but the point is is it plausible
that if given that this is twenty six point five that we picked this one at random or so or does it
fall so far away from the mean which is might be here might here might be so far away that it is just
unlikely that we would have picked it.
So if the solution is true around this mean then we would have been very unlikely to pick this ex-parte
at random that's exactly what we're going to be testing.
So similar to the situation we had with the coins.
Is it likely or is it extremely unlikely that this would have been picked at random given that this
is correct and that kind of shed some light on why we're seeing that news.
Zachary 5:26 the reason for that is that if we said myu to something that is less than great and then
5:26 then the distance will be even greater and will be easier for us to prove that the null hypothesis
is incorrect.
So the hardest scenario win or the sonata when it is hardest for us to prove that or to reject the null
hypothesis is when this is as close to the new as are the sample mean that we measured as possible.
So for example if mu X was not 5:26 but it was so this distribution wasn't here but it was like here.
So you x we said is 30 for instance and this question was here then the distance is already so great
there will be so easy for us to prove that this would have had this is unlikely to happen at random
and reject the null hypothesis.
We want to reject an all hypothesis in the most difficult circumstances for us as possible so that we
take into account all other circumstances.
Well and the most difficult way to reject an ill hypothesis is when new is exactly equal to any success
because in that case this distance is is already as small as it can get and therefore it's harder for
us.
You know this X bar might actually sneak in and might be very close to new acts and that in that case
it's very likely that we picked this X bar and we can reject the hypothesis.
But that's exactly what we're going to be testing.
How far is X bar from new x in terms of standard deviations so that we can reject all hypothesis or
we can't reject all hypothesis.
So there we go.
Let's have a look.
Hopefully that clarifies what we're going to be doing now and from here it's just it's all mechanical.
So here we just that there's our X bar calculate the Zed score as we did previously in the tutorials
on the central limit theorem as renos as core is simply just the distance between the mean and the x.
So we go like OK what's the difference what's the distance.
And now is the way of salvation so we know how many standard deviations we have in the distance.
It's 24 minutes twenty six point five do it by one point forty one equals minus one point seventy seven
so we didn't plot exactly correctly.
It's actually supposed to be over here so it's moved where it's supposed to be.
And now we're going to go calculate the p value.
Very simple.
So P-value.
OK let me just bring it up here so Zed is minus one point seventy seven.
So minus one point seven.
There we go.
And pointone So this black line this top line so you can see that here we have ZERO POINT 3 8 4.
OK so that's minus zero point is 3 8 4.
And now let's go back to our presentation.
So there it is zero point zero 3 8 4 so that's three point eighty four percent.
And so what does that mean.
Well that means.
Well that is less than five.
That's that's important.
But what that means is that it is only three point eighty four percent likely that we were to pick a
sample in this area.
So let's go back to this slide so you can see that this is the probability for a mean actually being
in this low to the left of our statistic.
So the probability of us picking a sample in this area and all of this area on the left of this red
line is only three point eighty four percent so the further left you go the lesser the probability becomes
it becomes less and less because of tails dropping off less and less and less.
But so in this whole area three point eighty four only in this whole area it's three point eighty four
percent.
And that's exactly where ex-parte came from.
So the probability.
So what we're saying is that the probability of us picking x bar is only three point eighty four percent.
So if the null hypothesis is true in this world that we live in that we've decided that is the true
world in this universe where myu is greater than or equal to twenty six point five.
The probability of this happening what we have.
What we saw the possibility was going out and surveying at random 50 millennials and finding out that
they were 24 that the mean of the hours they watch TV per week is 24 hours is so unlikely is only three
point eighty four percent.
So in this universe it's only there's only three point eighty four percent chance of that happening.
Just like with the coin toss and therefore we get very intuitive terms we get very suspicious.
We're like this is very unlikely something is going on here.
This is this cannot be true.
We don't we get we get very suspicious about it so we say OK that value is actually less than 5 percent.
And so with a 95 percent confidence we're going to reject the null hypothesis.
We're going to say that the new hypothesis cannot possibly be well it cannot be true of a 95 percent
confidence.
We're saying that with a 95 percent confidence that the null hypothesis cannot be true because we were
able to randomly magically pick out the sample and the mean was so low compared to our assumed meaning
of twenty six point five.
And so therefore what is true is the alternative hypothesis and the mean has decreased so the mean of
the population is actually no longer twenty six point five.
It's less than that.
And in business terms that's probably a call for you or your company to make on whether you want to
do the advertising on TV or not.
Given that the meat has decreased so maybe you are taking to cut this number but which you got from
2015 you don't have a new number for 2017 or whatever year you're in now.
So you just went out and surveyed people and you found out.
Oh it's actually decreased.
So we don't know.
There is no statistic.
It is no parameter or statistic that's been released publicly from serving companies from like large
census and stuff like that.
But at the same time just through this little quick experiment we were able to nudge 5 percent confidence
say that this number is no longer true that it has dropped and therefore we cannot use this number in
our calculations for the revenue.
Are we going to be getting from advertising all the things like that.
So there we go.
Hopefully that makes sense and we'll definitely do lots more of these throughout the course and in different
variations so you'll get used to them and you'll better understand and get a better feel for the intuition
behind things.
And as I mentioned previously that is as kind of the goal we should have the record because I'm doing
mathematics as you can see is easy it's about intuition and about like visualizing this in your mind.
That's the actual the real benefits or the added benefit that you can get on top of just learning the
mathematics.
And so if it's not a hundred percent clear yet don't worry about it.
We will do more examples and it will become clearer and clearer as we do more of these and you'll get
used to it over time.
So there we go that's how we do.
Those are the steps that are involved in hypothesis testing in the next tutorial we will have a second
approach we'll look at a second approach to this.
This the same steps.
There's just like it's a slightly different tours and it's called the rejection region and you might
be if you've done the disappearing might be used to that and also that's just a good approach to have
a look at.
So you have to in your arsenal.
So I look forward to an extent.
And until then happy analyzing.